Eddie saw great things and near misses. Albert Einstein as a child, not
quite struck by a runaway milk-wagon as he crossed a street. A teenage boy
named Albert Schweitzer getting out of a bathtub and not quite stepping on
the cake of soap lying beside the pulled plug. A Nazi Oberleutnant burning
a piece of paper with the date and place of the D-Day invasion written on
it. He saw a man who intended to poison the entire water supply of Denver
die of a heart attack in a roadside rest stop on I-80 in Iowa with a bag
of McDonald’s french fries on his lap. He saw a terrorist wired up with
explosives suddenly turn away from a crowded restaurant in a city that
might have been Jerusalem. The terrorist had been transfixed by nothing
more than the sky, and the thought that it arced above the just and unjust
alike. He saw four men rescue a little boy from a monster whose entire
head seemed to consist of a single eye.

But more important than any of these was the vast, accretive weight of small
things, from planes which hadn’t crashed to men and women who had come to
the correct place at the perfect time and thus founded generations. He saw
kisses exchanged in doorways and wallets returned and men who had come to
a splitting of the way and chosen the right fork. He saw a thousand random
meetings that weren’t random, ten thousand right decisions, a hundred
thousand right answers, a million acts of unacknowledged kindness. He saw
the old people of River Crossing and Roland kneeling in the dust for Aunt
Talitha’s blessing; again heard her giving it freely and gladly. Heard
her telling him to lay the cross she had given him at the foot of the Dark
Tower and speak the name of Talitha Unwin at the far end of the earth. He
saw the Tower itself in the burning folds of the rose and for a moment
understood its purpose: how it distributed its lines of force to all the
worlds that were and held them steady in time’s great helix. For every
brick that landed on the ground instead of some little kid’s head,
for every tornado that missed the trailer park, for every missile that
didn’t fly, for every hand stayed from violence, there was the Tower.

And the quiet, singing voice of the rose. The song that promised all might
be well, all might be well, that all manner of things might be well.


-- Wolves of the Calla - Stephen King

